DOCTRINE PART TWO (2) – SEPTEMBER 2013)
NAME:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..
DIOCESE:……………………………………………………………………. CIRCUIT:…………………………..……………………………………
INDEX NUMBER:……………………………………………………..…. DURATION: 1 HOUR 30 MINUTES
SECTION A (60%)
1. The divinity of the Holy Spirit was discussed and 5. According to. . . , “The Holy Spirit is the One who
officially accepted and affirmed at this council leads us from the cradle of regeneration to the
A. The Council of Constantinople in 381 AD perfection of glory.”
B. The Council of Nicea in 325 AD
C. The Council of Chalcedon in 451 AD
D. The Council of Carthage in 391 AD
2. The essential attributes/characteristics of
Holy Spirit include the following:
i. He has personality
ii. He has knowledge
iii. He has a will
iv. He has emotion
A. (i), (ii) and (iii)
B. B. (ii), (iii) and (iv)
C. (i), (iii) and (iv)
D. All four
3. The Spirit is called the breath of God because
A. God breathed into the nostrils of man at
tion
B. It blows like the wind
C. It emanates directly from God
D. Jesus breathed on His disciples
4. Which of the following statements are true
the gifts of the Holy Spirit?
i. They promote mission
ii. They involve all
iii. They can be used without love
v. They lay foundations
A. i and ii
B. i, ii and iii
C. i, ii and iv
D. All four
A. John Wesley
B. Spurgeon
C. Hugh E. Thomas
D. William Harden
6. The Holy Spirit was involved in the creation
because
A. the Spirit moved upon the face of the waters
B. the Spirit has creating powers
C. the Spirit communicates and maintains life
D. the Spirit is God
7. In which of the following verses does Paul
mention the fruit of the Spirit?
A. Galatians 5:19-21
B. Galatians 5: 22-23
C. Galatians 5:18
D. Galatians 5: 24
8. Which of the following is not true about the fruit
of the Holy Spirit?
A. It is concerned with the character of the be-
liever
B. All the elements of the fruit should be exhibit-
ed in every Christian
C. It differs from believer to believer
D. It takes time to mature
9. “Hear O Israel; the Lord our God is one Lord”
(Deut. 6:4). This passage
Asserts the unity of God
A. Excludes the idea of a plurality of persons in
the Godhead
B. Affirms that God is Lord
C. Confirms that God is the Lord of Israel
10. The Doctrine of the Trinity 15. This view pictures and presents the three persons
A. seeks to emphasize the personal distinctions as of the Godhead as consisting of three separate,
well as the indivisible unity of God but cooperating Gods.
B. states that there is one God who simply re- A. Tri-theism B. Arianism
veals himself through three different modes or C. Modalism D. Trinity
roles
C. Pictures and presents the three persons of the 16. The doctrine of the Trinity was proclaimed as the
Godhead as consisting of three separate but faith of the Church at
cooperating Gods A. The Council of Constantinople
D. Was formulated by Jesus in Matthew 28: 18- B. The Council of Nicea
20. C. The Council of Jerusalem
D. The Council of Antioch
11. Which of the following is true about the word
“Trinity”? 17. The Creeds were formulated to. . .
A. Scripture does not give a fully formulated doc- A. Remind us of the basis of the Christian faith
trine of the Trinity B. Help us grow in our faith, hope and love
B. The Bible contains all the elements out of C. Counteract heretic teachings
which the doctrine was constructed D. Summarize our belief in God
C. It is not explicitly found in the Bible
D. All the above 18. The question “Who is Jesus Christ?” is a question
the Church sought to answer
12. The first and the earliest evidence of the Trinity in A. At the Council of Constantinople in 381 AD
the Old Testament is contained in the B. At the Council of Nicea in 325 AD
A. Book of Psalms C. In fulfillment of the Nicene Creed
B. Book of Wisdom D. In response to Jesus’ question, “Who do peo-
C. Creation Story ple say I am?”
D. Law
19. The Church is holy because
13. “When we have said what is meant by Father, Son A. The God who called it is holy
and Spirit in God, we must continue, and say that B. Its members are called by God to live unselfish,
we have said nothing.” This was said by . . . pure and consecrated lives
A. St. Augustine C. It celebrates the sacrament of Holy Commun-
B. A. Wainwright ion
C. Karl Barth D. Its members follow the standard of life set by
D. William Barclay Jesus Christ
14. The doctrine of the Trinity was formulated. . . 20. “The saints” is another name in the New
A. To remind us of the Trinitarian basis of the Testament for
Christian faith A. Christians who are still journeying on the road
B. To affirm our faith in God the Father, Son and of life
Holy Spirit. B. Christians who are dead and gone to heaven
C. To counteract false teachings on the deity of C. The members of the Church
Jesus Christ. D. Christians who are living a holy life
D. To emphasize our belief in God as Creator, Re-
deemer and Sustainer.
TRUE OR FALSE
21. “Everlasting Life,” the “Communion of Saints”, the Resurrection of the body,” and the “Universal church” are
essential articles of the Christian Faith.
A. True B. False
22. “Without the Trinity, there can be no fellowship as love in God.” This statement was made by St. Augustine.
A. True B. False
23. The Holy Spirit produces nine kinds of fruits namely love, joy, peace, etc.
A. True B. False
24. The Apostles’ Creed originated with the apostles.
A. True B. False
25. The great ecumenical council of bishops was summoned by Bishop Athanasius.
A. True B. False
SECTION B (25%)
Answer only ONE Question from this Section
1. Discuss the importance of the Holy Spirit to the Christian life.
2. What is (are) the difference(s) between the Fruit of the Holy Spirit and the Gifts of the Holy Spirit?
SECTION C (25%)
Answer only ONE Question from this Section
1. Explain the relevance of the Trinity to the Christian life and experience.
2. What does it mean to say that the church is holy and therefore different from other institutions?
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIRECTORATE
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS’ EXAMINATION