DOCTRINE PART TWO (2) TIME: 1½ HRS.
NAME: ………………………………………………….………………………..……………………
DIOCESE:……………………………..…………….…CIRCUIT:………….……………………….
INDEX NUMBER:…………………………………………..………………………………………...
SECTION A
ATTEMPT ALL QUESTIONS
CIRCLE THE LETTER REPRESENTING THE CORRECT ANSWER
1. The doctrine of Christ is
A. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ
B. Convictions about Jesus Christ
C. The grace and love of God
D. Enquiry into the significance of Jesus for Christian faith
2. The name Jesus means
A. Yahweh is perfect
B. Messiah is king
C. Yahweh is salvation
D. Son of David
3. “She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.” This can be found
at
A. Luke 2:21
B. Matthew 1:21
C. Mark 1:21
D. Luke 1:22
4. What does it mean to say that Jesus’ conception was supernatural?
A. It occurred through the intervention of the Holy Spirit
B. Jesus was both God and man
C. Mary was a virgin
D. It was unique
5. Which of the following statements about the Atonement is out of place?
A. It fulfilled Old Testament scripture
B. It initiated a new relationship
C. It guaranteed an eternity with God
D. It validated Christ’s saving ministry
6. The Holy Spirit is the Counselor because
A. He is the one who advises us in times of confusion.
B. He assists us in times of opposition
C. He is one who comes alongside
D. He is one who inspires us.
7. Oil, Dove, Seal, Fire, Water, Wind describe
A. The general activity of the Holy Spirit
B. The specific activity of the Holy Spirit
C. The emblems of the Holy Spirit
D. The characteristics of the Holy Spirit
8. W hat does it mean to say that the Holy Spirit is a person?
i. He is a Counselor
ii. He has knowledge and intelligence
New Testament II – September 2011
viii. He acts
ix. He has emotion
E. (i), (ii) and (iii)
F. (ii), (iii) and (iv)
G. (i), (iii) and (iv)
H. All four
9. Which of the following is not true about the gifts of the Holy Spirit?
A. They are concerned with the character of the believer.
B. They relate to abilities and functions distributed among believers.
C. They differ from believer to believer.
D. They can be abused.
10. According to ………………., “The meaning of the Word being made flesh is not that the divine nature was changed into
flesh, but that the divine nature assumed our flesh except without sin.”
A. St. Augustine
B. Spurgeon
C. John Wesley
D. William Harden
11. The Creeds were formulated to …
A. Remind us of the basis of the Christian faith
B. Affirm our faith, hope and love
C. Counteract heretic teachings
D. Summarize our belief in God
12. One of the marks of the true church is that
A. Its members follow the apostolic preaching and instruction.
B. It comprises Christians at prayer everywhere
C. It commenced on the Day of Pentecost
D. Its members are called ekklesia
13. ……………………..held firmly to the divinity of Jesus but reduced his humanity.
A. Gnosticism
B. Arianism
C. Docetism
D. Ebionitism
14. This creed formally proclaimed the divinity and equality of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, in the Trinity?
A. The Apostles’ Creed
B. The Athanasian Creed
C. The Nicene Creed
D. The Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed
15. The question “Who is Jesus Christ?” is a question the Church sought to answer
A. At the Council of Constantinople in 381 AD
B. At the Council of Nicea in 325 AD
C. In fulfillment of the Nicene Creed
D. In response to Jesus’ question, “Who do people say I am?”
16. The Church is holy because
A. Its members are called by God to live unselfish, pure and consecrated lives
B. Its members worship on the Lord’s Day which is a holy day
C. It celebrates the sacrament of Holy Communion
D. Its members follow the teachings of the apostles
17. “The saints” is another name in the New Testament for
A. Christians who are still journeying on the road of life
B. Christians who are dead and gone to heaven
C. The members of the Church
New Testament II – September 2011
D. Christians who are living a holy life.
18. “There is one body and one Spirit…one Lord, one faith, one baptism; one God and Father of all…” This can be found
at
A. 1 Cor. 12:4-6
B. Gal. 3:28
C. Eph. 4:4-6
D. Col. 1:12
19. The gift of new life by the spirit is available to believers
i. Day of Judgment
ii. Christ’s Return
iii. The Millennium
iv. Resurrection of the Body
A. Because the power of God is active in the Spirit
B. Because of the deatyh of Christ on the cross
C. Because the spirit comes to assure believers
D. Because the spirit is God
20. The prophesy that God will put his spirit permanently within the lives of believers was fulfilled
A. To show that the spirit works in a selective way
B. On the day of Pentecost
C. To show that spirit works in a dynamic way
D. To prove that God is faithful.
STATE: TRUE OR FALSE
21. For Jesus Christ to be free of original sin His conception had to be without sexual relations.
A. True B. False
22. The subject of the return of Christ is mentioned in every New Testament book except Galatians.
A. B. False
23. Jesus’ resurrection is supported by both factual and psychological evidence.
A. True B. False
24. The emblems of the Holy Spirit throw light upon both His deity and personality.
A. True B. False
25. The great ecumenical council of bishops was summoned by Bishop Athanasius.
A. True B. False
SECTION B
Answer One
1. Write short notes on the following Christological titles:
a) Messiah
b) God
c) Lord
d) Son of Man
2. Discuss the work of Christ in terms of past, present and future.
SECTION C
Answer One
1. Write a sermon to your congregation explaining how the Holy spirit works in the life of a Christian
2. How will you explain to a non-Christian friend the fact that the church is holy and therefore different from other
organizations or groups of people?
New Testament II – September 2011
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS‟ EXAMINATIONS - NOVEMBER 2009