APRIL 2012 DOCTRINE PART TWO (2) TIME:1HR. 30 MINS.
NAME: ……………………………………..…………………………………………………………………
DIOCESE:……………………………..………………………………………………………………………
CIRCUIT:………………………………………INDEX NUMBER:……………………………………...
SECTION A
ATTEMPT ALL QUESTIONS
CIRCLE THE LETTER REPRESENTING THE CORRECT ANSWER
SECTION A
1. The doctrine of Christ is
A. Convictions about Jesus Christ
B. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ
C. The grace and love of God
D. Enquiry into the significance of Jesus for Christian faith
2. The name Jesus means
A. Yahweh is perfect C. Son of David
B. Messiah is king D. Yahweh is salvation
3. “She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.” This can
be found at
A. Luke 2:21 C. Mark 1:21
B. Matthew 1:21 D. Luke 1:22
4. What does it mean to say that Jesus’ conception was supernatural?
A. It occurred through the intervention C. Mary was a virgin
of the Holy Spirit D. It was unique
B. Jesus was both God and man
5. Which of the following statements about the Atonement is out of place?
A. It fulfilled Old Testament scripture C. It guaranteed an eternity with God
B. It initiated a new relationship D. It validated Christ’s saving ministry
6. The Holy Spirit is the Counselor because
A. He is the one who advises us in times of confusion.
B. He assists us in times of opposition
C. He is one who comes alongside
D. He is one who inspires us.
7. Oil, Dove, Seal, Fire, Water, Wind describe
A. The general activity of the Holy Spirit D. The characteristics of the Holy
B. The specific activity of the Holy Spirit Spirit
C. The emblems of the Holy Spirit
8. W hat does it mean to say that the Holy Spirit is a person?
i. He is a Counselor vi. He acts
ii. He has knowledge and intelligence vii. He has emotion
Doctrine II – September 2011
A. (i), (ii) and (iii) C. (i), (iii) and (iv)
B. (ii), (iii) and (iv) D. All four
9. Which of the following is not true about the gifts of the Holy Spirit?
A. They are concerned with the character of the believer.
B. They relate to abilities and functions distributed among believers.
C. They differ from believer to believer.
D. They can be abused.
10. According to ………………., “The meaning of the Word being made flesh is not that the divine nature was
changed into flesh, but that the divine nature assumed our flesh except without sin.”.
A. St. Augustine C. John Wesley
B. Spurgeon D. William Harden
11. The Creeds were formulated to …
A. Remind us of the basis of the C. Counteract heretic teachings
Christian faith D. Summarize our belief in God
B. Affirm our faith, hope and love
12. One of the marks of the true church is that
A. Its members follow the apostolic preaching and instruction.
B. It comprises Christians at prayer everywhere
C. It commenced on the Day of Pentecost
D. Its members are called ekklesia
13. ……………………..held firmly to the divinity of Jesus but reduced his humanity.
A. Gnosticism C. Docetism
B. Arianism D. Ebionitism
14. This creed formally proclaimed the divinity and equality of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, in the Trinity.
A. The Apostles’ Creed C. The Nicene Creed
B. The Athanasian Creed D. The Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed
15. The question “Who is Jesus Christ?” is a question the Church sought to answer
A. At the Council of Constantinople in 381 AD
B. At the Council of Nicea in 325 AD
C. In fulfillment of the Nicene Creed
D. In response to Jesus’ question, “Who do people say I am?”
16. The Church is holy because
A. Its members are called by God to live unselfish, pure and consecrated lives
B. Its members worship on the Lord’s Day which is a holy day
C. It celebrates the sacrament of Holy Communion
D. Its members follow the teachings of the apostles
17. “The saints” is another name in the New Testament for
A. Christians who are still journeying on the road of life
B. Christians who are dead and gone to heaven
C. The members of the Church
D. Christians who are living a holy life.
18. “There is one body and one Spirit…one Lord, one faith, one baptism; one God and Father of all…” This can
be found at
Doctrine II – September 2011
A. 1 Cor. 12:4-6 C. Eph. 4:4-6
B. Gal. 3:28 D. Col. 1:12
19. The gift of new life by the Spirit is available to believers
A Because the power of God is active in the Spirit.
B Because of the death of Christ on the cross.
C. Because the Spirit comes to assure believers
D. Because the Spirit is God.
20. The prophecy that God would put his Spirit permanently within the lives of believers was fulfilled
A. To show that the Spirit works in a C. To show that the Spirit works in a
selective way. dynamic way.
B. On the Day of Pentecost D. To prove that God is faithful.
TRUE OR FALSE
21. For Jesus Christ to be free of original sin His conception had to be without sexual relations.
A. True B. False
22. When we describe the Holy Spirit as a dove we are talking about his nature and mission.
A. True B. False
23. Jesus’ resurrection is supported by both factual and psychological evidence.
A. True B. False
24. The Apostles’ Creed originated with the apostles.
A. True B. False
25. The great ecumenical council of bishops was summoned by Bishop Athanasius.
A. True B. False
SECTION B - Answer One
1. The Christian faith affirms that Jesus Christ is truly human and truly divine. Discuss five (5) proofs that Jesus
was indeed divine and human.
2. Write short notes on five facts about the Resurrection of Jesus Christ that Christians need to bear in mind.
SECTION C - Answer One
1. What is/are the difference(s) between the Fruit of the Holy Spirit and the Gifts of the Holy Spirit?
2. How would you explain the fact that the church is holy and therefore different from other organizations or
groups of people?
Liturgics II – September 2011
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS EXAMINATIONS – SEPTEMBER 2011 REFERRED