DOCTRINE PART TWO (II) – SEPTEMBER 2014
NAME:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..
DIOCESE:……………………………………………………………………. CIRCUIT:…………………………..……………………………………
INDEX NUMBER:……………………………………………………..…. TIME ALLOWED: 2 Hours
SECTION `A` - ATTEMPT ALL QUESTTIONS-60MARKS
1. In doctrine, what do we mean by the term Christology? a. Salvation
a. The study of Christianity. b. Incarnation
b. An enquiry into the study of Christian faith. c. Atonement
c. An enquiry into the person and work of Jesus . d. Direction
. Christ.
d. An enquiry into the significance of Jesus for the .
. Christian faith.
2. What is faith according to the classical Christian
tradition?
a. Belief in a deity.
b. Belief in the Triune God.
c. Belief in the person of Jesus Christ.
d. All of the above.
3. Which of the following passages states…‟‟she will bear a
son and you shall call his name Jesus….‟‟
a. Luke 1:38
b. Mathew 1:21
c. Luke 2:38
d. Mark 1:15.
4. The Latin word „Incanare’ means…….
a. To make flesh
b. To show up
c. To save
d. To make known
5. All the following Gospels record the story of the birth
of Jesus Christ except
a. Matthew
b. Mark
c. Luke
d. None of the above
6. According to the St. Augustine the meaning of the
word „made flesh‟ is that…..
a. The divine nature was changed into human nature.
b. The divine nature assumed the human nature
except that He was without sin.
c. The divine nature was the word in the beginning.
d. The word was both God and men.
7. The statement that „‟God in one of the modes of his
triune being and without in anyway ceasing to be God,
has revealed himself to mankind for their salvation by
coming amongst them as men‟‟ is known as…..
8. Which of the following facts about the incarnation
helps us to understand that Jesus was born without sin?
a. The Supernatural conception
b. His unique personality of being God and human
c. The validation of his saving ministries
d. His being in existence from eternity
9. Which of the following is true about the Atonement?
a. It validates Christ‟s saving ministry
b. It upholds Christ‟s full deity
c. It establishes Christ unique personality
d. It reversed sin‟s dominion
10. The biblical doctrine that ”Jesus was miraculously
begotten by God and born of Mary who was a virgin‟‟ is
known as
a. Incarnate
b. Tri-theism
c. Regeneration
d. Parthenogenesis
11. Which of the following is not a Christological title?
a. Jesus b. God c. Word d. Wisdom
12. The virgin birth became necessary because of
a. Its mythological nature
b. The need for a new dispensation
c. The humanity of Christ
d. The transmission of original sin
13. What is Arianism?
a. The doctrine that Jesus was only God
b. The doctrine that Jesus was both human and God
c. The doctrine that Jesus was not human
d. The doctrine that Jesus was only human
14. The Church‟s argument against Docetism as
emphasized in the New Testament was that
a. Jesus was an ideal man
b. Jesus was truly God
c. Jesus experienced every human need and appetite
d. Time was when Jesus was not
4 of 101
a. The Baptismal Formula
b. The Apostolic Benediction
15. Soteriology deals with…….
c. The Three-fold Aaronic Blessing
a. The doctrine of the person of Christ
d. Isaiah‟s message on the Virgin Birth.
b. The doctrine of the work of Christ
c. The doctrine of the nature of Christ 2 3 . T h e f a c t t h a t G o d h a s a c t e d d ecisively in history,
d. The doctrine of the person and the Work of revealing Himself and will, yet act
Christ to bring history to its predestined conclusion shows
that
16. All the following are some of the significance of the a. Christianity is a prophetic religion
resurrection of Christ except b. Christianity is a creative Religion
a. It is foundation of the Christian faith.
c. Christianity is a historical Religion
b. It is about the future work of Christ
d. Christianity must be accepted by all.
c. It is one of the promises of ultimate victory
d. It is the power of the Christian experience. 24. Christians as far as the last things are concerned, do
agree on all the following except
17. Which of the following passages talks about the a. The Resurrection of the body
Parables that Provoked? b. The day of Judgment
a. Luke 15: 11-12 b. Matthew 7: 24-29 c. The return of Jesus Christ
c. Mark 1:23-28 d. John 14:1-6,27 d. The Millenium
18. “When we have said what is meant by Father, Son and
STATE EITHER TRUE OR FALSE
Holy Spirit in God, we must continue and say that we
have said nothing” This was said by 25. The Day of Judgment tells us that History has no end
a. Karl Barth b. Arius c. Augustine d. Origin though there is accountability
a. True b. False
19. Under whose leadership was the doctrine of Trinity
formally adopted as the Faith 26. For Paul the return of Christ is a “Living Hope”
of the Church? a. True b. False
a. Augustine b. Tertullian c. Karl Barth
27. Karl Barth states that in God there are not three divine
d. Irenaeus
„I‟s, but one „I‟.
20. The teaching that the three persons of the Godhead, a. True b. False
Father, Son and the Holy Spirit consists of Three separate
28. The Return of Jesus Christ is mentioned in all the
but co-operating God‟s is known as
a. Trinity b. Modalism c. Tri-theism d. Books of the New Testament except
Galatians and Philemon
Docetism
a. True b. False
21. Which of the following Confessions states that “God
29. The Parable of the Sheep and Goats tell us that the
is one in Essence, yet
Lord‟s return will be sudden.
distinguished in Three persons”?
a. True b. False
a. The Belgic Confessions
b. The Westminister Confessions
30. The Father is God; the Son is God; the Holy Spirit is
c. The Vatican Confessions
God. This clearly shows that there are
d. The Alexandrian Confessions
Three Gods in the Trinity.
a. True b. False
22. Which one of the following could be used as the root
of the Trinity in the Old Testament?
SECTION B
ANSWER ONLY ONE (1) FROM THIS SECTION
1. Write short notes on any five (5) facts about the Resurrection of Jesus Christ that Christians need to know.
2. State five (5) of the Christological titles of Jesus Christ and elaborate on any Three (3) of them
SECTION C
ANSWER ONLY ONE (1) QUESTION FROM THIS SECTION
3. The Bible does not teach the doctrine of the Trinity, neither the word „Trinity‟ itself is found in the Bible. Yet we can
find its roots in the Bible. Discuss.
4. Write short notes on any Two (2) of the following:
a. Christ‟s return
b. Resurrection of the Body
c. The Day of Judgment
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIRECTORATE
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS’ EXAMINATION – SEPTEMBER 2014