METHODIST STUDIES – PART II SEPTEMBER 2014
–
NAME:………………………………………………………………………………………………….…………..
DIOCESE:……………………………………………. CIRCUIT:…………………..…………………
INDEX NUMBER:………………………………..…. TIME ALLOWED: 1 HOUR 30 MINUTES
INSTRUCTIONS
ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS IN SECTION A. EACH QUESTION CARRIES TWO MARKS
DRAW A CIRCLE AROUND THE CORRECT ANSWER TO THE QUESTION
6. Experience denies the truths revealed in scrip-
1. WHICH District was the first to implement the tures shown over the years by tradition.
system of separated Chairman in the Methodist a. True b. False
Church Ghana?
a. Sunyani
b. Kumasi
c. Tarkwa
d. Accra
2. Which of these statements confirm that John
Wesley did not have a casual attitude towards
doctrinal issues?
a. Preaching houses were provided in which
Methodist preachers resided
b. The members were to sit in and listen to the
railing of ministers
c. The preachers could preach and advocate the
absolute decrees
d. The ministers and members were not allowed
into the societies
3. What term is given to the four-fold source of
Wesley‟s theological thinking?
a. The Wesleyan Principle of Perfection
b. The Wesleyan Principle of Salvation
c. The Wesleyan Quadrilateral
d. The Wesleyan Four All
4. Which of these statements will not show John
Wesley‟s passionate love for the Holy Scriptures?
a. All scripture is inspired of God
b. I allow no other rule, whether of faith or
practice than the Holy Bible
c. The love of God is far less than the scriptures
d. The Holy Scriptures has all that is necessary
and sufficient for salvation
5. In Wesley‟s writings whenever he uses the term
„of our own‟ what did he mean?
a. The Epworth Rectory
b. The Holy Club
c. The Methodist Church
d. The Church of England
7. Which of these would not form part of John
Wesley‟s classification of human nature?
a. Humanity as God‟s example
b. Humanity as God‟s gracious creation
c. Humanity as fallen
d. Humanity as restored through Jesus Christ
8. Which of these statements does not support Wes-
leyan understanding of the moral image of God
in man?
a. Holy as God who created him is holy
b. Merciful as the author of all is merciful
c. Perfect as his Father in heaven is perfect
d. Unjust but the Father is just
9. In the teaching of John Wesley what is the mean-
ing of true humanity?
a. When man can relate well with God
b. When man can relate well with lower animals
and oneself
c. When man can relate well with other humans
d. When man can relate well with spiritual be-
ings
10. In Wesley‟s sermon on „Salvation by Faith‟ which
of these is the true definition of faith?
a. The faith of the heathen
b. The actions of the worshippers of God
c. The rational and assent in the mind
d. The attitude and response of the people
11. Which of these statements will not explain Wes-
leyan Ethics?
a. Show sensitivity to the underprivileged
b. Show compassion to poor in your home only
c. Show solidarity with the poor
d. Refrain from radicle and prejudice
12. What reasons did George Whitefield give to op-
pose Wesley‟s teaching on Christian Perfection?
a. There is no such perfection on earth
9 of 101
b. The teaching was a selected few d. Twenty Pounds
c. The people were too sinful to be holy
d. The teaching was over and above the poor 20. According to John Wesley all those who practiced
people his first two maxims on money – “gain and save
all you can” without the third – “give all you can”
13. In explaining „Christian Perfection‟ Wesley wrote are
that a perfect person is free from all these except. a. Twofold more than children of hell than ever
a. Free from evil thoughts they were before
b. Free from envy, ill will and lust b. Not far from the kingdom of God than they
c. Free from ignorance and mistake were before
d. Free from evil tempers c. The most vulnerable in society and bound for
destruction
14. If Charles Wesley did not originally show any d. Sincerely true Methodists
concern for religion what motivated him express
disappointment of the life on campus? 21. John Wesley's treatise, 'Thoughts Upon Slavery'
a. He formed the Holy Club with friends identified these stages as the point of
b. He was influenced by the elder brother severe cruelties on the slaves except:
c. He was convinced by the mother from Ep- a. Their capture
worth
d. He was motivated by John Wesley
15. Which of the reasons below does not explain
Charles Wesley‟s pastoral work in Georgia?
a. He found himself out of favour with Orgle-
thorpe
b. He felt home sick and the duty tiresome
c. He was abused in the colony by the people
d. He stayed for three years and impacted the
people
16. What special role has the hymns composed by
John Wesley had on Methodism?
a. It has given recognition to societies
b. It has given identity and sense of community
experience
c. It has added value to the course of the com-
munity
d. It has made the whole of prayers very spiritu-
al
17. What was the testimony of Isaac Watts on
Charles Wesley‟s hymn „Wrestling Jacob‟?
a. It is the most profound hymn ever written
b. It is all the hymns in the compilation for 1780
c. It is worth all the verses he had written
d. It is soul-inspiring and easy to sing
18. In addition to evangelism the Methodist Move-
ment was also involved in other activities except:
a. Social work
b. Relief assistance
c. Education
d. International fellowships
19. The loan amount given as capital to the poor by
Wesley to start businesses amounted to
a. Twenty Shillings
b. Five Pounds
c. Ten Pounds
b. Their transportation
c. Their sale in the colonies
d. Their recruitment into the army
21. What was the main emphasis of the Calvinists
teaching on predestination and reprobate?
a. It exalted human freedom
b. It exalted the absolute sovereignty of God
c. It exalted the judgement of God
d. It exalted the mercies of God
22. Who was the patroness of the Calvinist Methodist
Connexion?
a. Lady Hummington
b. Lady Amintage
c. Lady Huntingdon
d. Lady Ammingdon
23. Which young priest was commissioned to chal-
lenge the charges of Koornheert against predesti-
nation?
a. Jacobus Cennick
b. John Humphrey
c. Jacobus Arminius
d. Johannes Armitage
24. At what conference of the Methodist Church
Ghana was the Episcopal Leadership adopted?
a. The thirty-fifth Annual Conference
b. The thirty-eighth Annual Conference
c. The thirty-ninth Annual Conference
d. The fortieth Annual Conference
10 of 101
SECTION B
ANSWER QUESTON ONE AND ANY OTHER QUESTION
1. Define the doctrine of prevenient grace. State and explain any four characteristics of this doctrine according
to John Wesley. (30 marks)
2. Discuss the nature of Wesleyan social ethics under the following headings.
(a) John Wesley and the use of money
(b) John Wesley‟s concern for prisoners (20 marks)
3. Briefly discuss the Episcopal Leadership in Ghana Methodism under the following headings.
a. The Proclamation Service
b. The changes in offices
c. Official ministerial vestments (20 marks)
4. Discuss John Wesley‟s teaching on humanity as fallen and four consequences of the Fall of Man. (20 marks)
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIRECTORATE
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS’ EXAMINATION