NEW TESTAMENT (PART TWO) TIME: 1 HOUR
NAME: ………………………………………………………………………………………………….
DIOCESE: ……………………..…….…………….CIRCUIT: ……….……………….……………
INDEX NUMBER: …………………………………………………………………………………….
ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS
1. The gospel of Justification by faith was threatened by the teaching that:
A. Keeping the law is the preserve of the Jews
B. Gentiles cannot share tables with Jews
C. Both Gentiles and Jews must keep Moses‟ Law
D. Women should cover their heads.
2. Paul was attacked at his “Archilies heel.” This points to:
A. His hostile nature
B. His arrogance
C. Weak points in his life history
D. Thorn in his flesh for which he prayed God to remove.
3. Paul‟s defense of his authority as a genuine apostle of Jesus Christ was:
A. That he was able to correct the errors of the leaders of the church in Jerusalem
B. That his commission and gospel came directly, from Jesus
C. That he was of the tribe of Benjamin and a true Hebrew
D. That the Apostles did not do much correction with regards to the gospel he preached
4. In Mark the title “Son of God” point to:
A. Jesus as “special Agent” but not necessarily fully divine
B. Jesus as “Man” but He is also fully divine
C. Jesus unique relationship to his mother Mary
D. Jesus as the first person in the trinity
5. Jesus receiving baptism from John in the Jordan shows that:
A. He had become sinful and therefore needed to be cleansed
B. He was identifying Himself with sinners
C. He needed the Holy Spirit‟s power (represented by dove) for His ministry
D. John the Baptist was greater than Him at that moment
6. The temptation of Jesus in the wilderness:
A. Lasted almost 40 days
B. Was a test to show that He was qualified for His messianic mission
C. Was to show Satan that the world was His kingdom and not Satan‟s
D. Was done by the Holy Spirit rather than Satan
7.
“The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand …” (Mk.1;15) the kingdom of God here is.
A. A new Jerusalem from heaven
B. A new heaven and a new earth
C. The triumph of God‟s plan of salvation over human sin and demonic opposition
D. The period of thousand year rule of the Lord
New Testament II – September 2011
8. Tax collectors were hated by the Jews because:
A. Some of the money they collected secretly went to support the hierarchy of the Sadducees
B. They did not abide by rigid pharisaic standards
C. Of their reputation for cheating and their support of Rome
D. They regarded the Pharisees as untaught in the Law
9. The Sabbath was ordained for:
A. The well-being of the Pharisees, excluding the Sadducees
B. the well-being of the poor and the oppressed who receded rest from their labour
C. Enablement to keep burdensome regulations with ease
D. Mankind‟s benefit and refreshment
10. Breaking of Sabbath is an offence punishable by:
A. Receiving twelve lashes of cane
B. Receiving forty lashes of cane
C. Exclusion from temple worship for forty days
D. Death
11. Luke‟s aim for his book is seen by many, from historic perspective, as provision of information
about:
A. Defence of freedom of worship by the Christian
B. Defence of the Christian faith to the Roman authorities
C. Defence of unveiling of the head by women
D. Defence of the “eating of the flesh of Christ” and the “drinking of His blood” at the
Lord‟s Supper.
12. In terms of theology, the author of the Book of Luke.
A. Encourages the Christian undergoing persecution to remain loyal to Christ for victory is
theirs ultimately.
B. Reveals Christ as king of kings and Lord of Lords who judges the nation
C. Urges the Christian to work out his own salvation
D. Gives guidance to the Church on how to live until Jesus returns and on how to transmit
the gospel to people who had not seen Jesus in the flesh.
13. In the forty days between Jesus‟ resurrection and ascension, the number of appearances He
made to the disciples were:
A. 12
B. 40
C. 3
D. 10
14. When Jesus told the disciples of the soon coming of the Holy Spirit Baptism they concluded
that the restoration of the kingdom was near. What made them think so?
A. Because Jesus, as a Messiah, would be able to overthrow Roman Empire
B. Because they had a false concept of the kingdom
C. Because they forgot the exact time told them of the restoration of the kingdom
D. Because in the Old Testament, the out pouring of the Holy Spirit and the promised
kingdom were closely associated.
15. The Ascension is the withdrawal of Jesus from our vision but from the world.
A. True
B. False
16. After Peter‟s sermon on repentance five thousand persons believed.
New Testament II – September 2011
A. True
B. False
17. Those who responded positively to Peter‟s sermon immediately joined the church.
A. True
B. False
18. During the persecution of the Church Peter & John were arrested.
A. True
B. False
19. Peter‟s address before the Sanhedrin emphasized that salvation was in Jesus alone but keeping
the Sabbath was also necessary.
A. True
B. False
20. The Sadducees were religious leaders who did not believe bodily resurrection.
A. True
B. False
SECTION B
ESSAY QUESTIONS
ANSWER ONE QUESTION FROM THIS SECTION
1. In Galatians, Paul‟s personal authority as a true apostle was attacked. Discuss the issues and the
implications.
2. Three preparatory events are presented in Mark chapter one, namely (i) the ministry of John the
Baptist, (ii) Jesus‟ baptism (iii) Jesus‟ temptation.
Discuss two of the events.
SECTION “C”
ANSWER ONE QUESTION FROM THIS SECTION
1. Discuss the healing of the lame man in Acts and the related address by Peter.
2. Discuss the sin of Ananias and Sapphira.
New Testament II – September 2011
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA – LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS EXAMINATIONS, NOVEMBER 2009