NEW TESTAMENT STUDIES - PART TWO (2). TIME ALLOWED: 2 HRS
NAME: ……………………………………………………………………………………….…………………………………………………………………….
DIOCESE: ……………………………..…………………… CIRCUIT: ……………………………………….. INDEX NO…………………………….……
SECTION A
1. What is not correct about Timothy in the following?
A. He was converted at the age of twelve, during Paul‟s ministry at Lystra.
B. From his childhood he had been instructed in the writings of the OT.
C. He was the son of a Greek father and a devout mother
D. He became Paul‟s companion
2. Which of the following is not correct about the Characteristics of the Epistles?
A. The epistles are highly personal, practical and unsystematic
B. In them we see the mellow wisdom of old age
C. They constitute a source of encouragement and help for Christian workers
D. They are letters that address congregations and not individuals
3. About Paul‟s purpose of the epistles, which one of these is not correct?
A. That Timothy should not let any one “despise” his youth
B. Timothy was to demonstrate his maturity by rubbing shoulders with the elderly
C. The Epistles were written to instruct the young worker to be a good and effective leader
D. To instruct people how to conduct themselves in God‟s household
4. Concerning the standards of the Church: Which of the following is not correct?
A. Prayer of every kind is to be offered for all men, with intercession and thanksgiving
B. That women should depend on their faithful service in the name of Christ to render them unattractive
to men
C. Women should not emphasize the external but the internal
D. Bishops must be men of integrity, sobriety and consciousness
5. Which of the following is not the case of a Deacon?
A. Like the bishops, deacons must also be seen of quality, even though their function in the congrega-
tion is significantly different
B. Deacons take care of mundane matters of church life, particularly the distribution of charity
C. Deacons should be proved blameless in their marital life before entering office
D. Their private life ought to manifest a true Christian home
6. „Justification by faith alone‟: Which of the following was not said by Paul‟s opponents?
A. It is possible that a man could believe in Christ for salvation and then do as he pleased
B. If a believer returns to the law after trusting in Christ alone for salvation, the law will make him a
sinner
C. Justification by faith alone encouraged sinful living
D. Justification by faith alone eliminated the law, making people having no need to do good works
7. On the purpose of the Law, which of the following is not correct?
A. Before the advent of faith in Jesus Christ, Israel was under the protective custody of the Law
B. The Law served as a “teacher”
C. The Law was also the disciplinarian until Christ came
D. The Law actually led people to Christ
SECTION B
New Testament II – September 2011
From the words below choose the word which correctly fills the blank spaces
Exhibition, strength, consistent, power, demands, display, curses, enable, blesses
The Law commands but does not ………………… Grace provides what the Law ……………… and then
enables man to live a life ………………… with his position by the …………………… of Holy Spirit. C. H.
Mackintosh has said “The Law demands ………………………… from one who has none and
……………………………. him if he cannot ………………………. It. The Gospel gives strength to one
who has none and …………………… him in the ………………… of it.”
SECTION C (Short answers)
1) What was the complaint of the Hellenistic Jews?
2) What did the apostles consider as their priorities?
3) What was to be the qualifications for those to serve tables?
4) How was Stephen described?
SECTION D
ESSAY QUESTIONS
ANSWER ONE(1) QUESTION FROM EACH SECTION (D1 & D2)
SECTION D1
MARK‟S GOSPEL
1) Healing of the man with a withered hand on the Sabbath: if Jesus healed him he would be accused of be-
ing a Sabbath violator, an offence punishable by death (Exod. 31:14-17). Discuss how Jesus handled this
issue of the Sabbath regulation in pursuit of his ministry.
2) Teachers of the Law (scribes) came from Jerusalem to investigate Jesus, concerning this healing ministry
after which they charged him of evil activities.
a) State their charges
b) What was Jesus‟ answer to the charges?
SECTION D2
ACTS OF THE APOSTLES
1. Stephen‟s address to the religious authorities and the nation of Israel comprised the following major ide-
as stated below. Discuss one.
a) That there is progress and change in God‟s programme.
b) That the blessing of God are not limited to the land of Israel and the temple area
c) That Israel in its past always evidenced a pattern of opposition to God‟s plans and his men
2. Discuss the appointment of the 12 apostles
New Testament II – September 2011
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA – LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
LOCAL PREACHERS EXAMINAIONS – SEPTEMBER 2010