New Testament Part 2
In connection with selecting a candidate to
complete the apostolate which one of the
following serves as an important
qualification?
A) They must be speakers of tongues
B) They must be filled with the Holy Spirit
C) They must be witness to Jesus
resurrection
D) They must be witness of Jesus Ascension
The opponents of Stephen charged him
with:
A) Blasphemous words against Jesus
B) Blasphemous words against Moses and
God
C) Blasphemous words against the
Sanhedrin
D) Blasphemous words against Roman
Emperor
The Acts of Apostle may conveniently be
called
A) The Acts of the Church
B) Acts of the Twelve Disciples
C) Acts of the Holy Spirit
D) Acts of the Believers
In the first Missionary journey of Paul at
Phaphos, the major event of his ministry
was
A) The conversion of the pro-consul
sergius Paulus
Page 27
B) The Conversion of the false prophet D) The conversion of the Roman centurion.
Bar-Jesus
C) The conversion of the Gentiles
Indicate TRUE or FALSE for these Statements
21. The one basic problem of Paul’s writing to the Galatians was the teaching of Judaizers
A) True B) False
22. Paul’s Gospel of justification by faith was threatened by the teaching that Galatians, both
Gentiles and Jews must not keep Moses law.
A) True B) False
23. The strategy of Paul’s opponents in Galatians was that because he was not one of the Twelve
Apostles his authority was not apostolic, hence his message was not second-hand
A) True B) False
24. Paul wrote to defend his place and authority as a genuine apostle of Jesus Christ and his
commission and gospel came directly from Jesus.
A) True B) False
25. Paul’s writing to the Galatians also was to teach about the Spirit-controlled life that accompanies
justification by law.
A) True B) False
SECTION B (25 MARKS)
Answer only ONE question from this section
1. Write about how Jesus responded to the issue of “picking and eating of grain on the Sabbath” in Mark’s
Gospel.
2. Write about the parable of the sower in Mark’s Gospel depicting the character of God’s kingdom (Marks
4:1-34).
SECTION C (25 MARKS)
Answer only ONE question from this section
1. Describe how the Church expanded from Judea to Samaria (with reference to Acts 8:1b-40)
2. With reference to Galatians describe how Paul defended his teaching on justification by faith as against
his opponents (Judaizers), and its significance to the Christian.