OLD TESTAMENT STUDIES - PART TWO (2). TIME ALLOWED: 2 HRS
NAME: ……………………………………………………………………………………….…………………………………………………………………….
DIOCESE: ……………………………..…………………… CIRCUIT: ……………………………………….. INDEX NO…………………………….……
INSTRUCTIONS: ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS IN SECTION ‘A’ AND TWO
QUESTION (2) FROM SECTION ‘B’
SECTION ‘A’ (50 MARKS)
1. Which of the following words is not used to designate one who is a spokesman for God?
A. Rõ’eh
B. Nãvi
C. Zéhi
D. Hõzéh
2. When Israel entered the promised land, there came a time when everyone did as he saw fit
(Judges 21:25). Why was this so?
A. The leaders of the time were corrupt.
B. They had no one to lead them
C. They had been influenced by the danger of the Canaanite Cult
D. The Judges and the Prophets did not help them much.
3. Where were the centres of the Tyrian Baal and the Calf worship situated during the settlement in
the Promised Land?
A. Dan and Bethel
B. Bethel and Jericho
C. Tishbi and Dan
D. Dan and Jericho
4. What was the most significant thing about the ministry of Elijah and Elisha in the Northern King-
dom?
A. Elijah was more powerful than Elisha
B. They concentrated their efforts in healing, especially the lepers
C. They were fortunate to have the support of the Kings
D. They were strongly opposed by the government.
5. Which of the following statements is not true in the life of the prophets?
A. Just as the priests represented the people before God, so the prophets represented God before
the people.
B. Just as the prophets represented the people before God, so the priests represented God to the
people.
C. Just as the prophets represented God before the people it was the priest who stood in for the
people before God.
D. The prophets served as mediators between God and the nation.
6. According to Deuteronomy 18:15-18 who set up the prophetic institution?
A. Moses
B. Elijah
C. Samuel
D. Yahweh
New Testament II – September 2011
7. In Ezekiel chapter 4, we learn that Ezekiel built a city on sand with mud and made a toy soldier
indicating that he was helping to bring about the siege and the destruction of Jerusalem. How do
we call this illustration?
A. Prophetic word
B. Prophecy and the future
C. Prophetic symbolism
D. None of the above
8. Which of the following is one of the roles played by the prophets in Israel.
A. They were taught by the people during worship
B. They spoke of the needs of the people to God
C. They offered sacrifices on behalf of the people
D. They gave oracles mainly about the distant future.
9. Which of the following demonstrates a practical test to distinguish between a true and false
prophets?
A. The fulfillment of the prophecy
B. The message turning people from evil
C. The message talking about God’s judgment
D. The message being in line with the teachings of Moses
10. Which of the following Books constitute the LATTER PROPHET?
A. Numbers, Judges, Leviticus and Kings
B. Samuel, Elijah, Elisha and Joshua
C. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel and the Twelve
D. Joshua, Judges, Samuel and Kings
11. Which of the following books illustrates that loyalty to God meant a strong united nation?
A. Joshua
B. Judges
C. Deuteronomy
D. Samuel
12. The books of Samuel are divided into five (5) main themes which of the following divisions is one
of the themes.
A. David as King of all Israel (II Samuel 2-4)
B. Shiloh and Samuel (II Samuel 1:1-16:7)
C. Samuel and Saul (I Samuel 1:1-7:1)
D. Saul and David (II Samuel 2-4)
13. Which of the following books talks about the History of Israel between 1075BC to 975 BC?
A. Joshua
B. Judges
C. Samuel
D. Kings
14. Which one of the following reasons accounts for the revolution in Israel led by Jeroboam?
A. The problem of Intermarriage
B. Solomon’s oppressive rule
C. The issue of Syncretism
New Testament II – September 2011
D. The maladministration of King Saul
15. What was the major problem that Israel faced when they entered the Promised Land?
A. How could Israel occupy the Land without talking over their religion.
B. The issue of being treated as slaves just as it happened in Egypt.
C. Israelites displeasure about the Canaanite Cult
D. None of the above.
16. Elijah is said to be a native of
A. Tishbe in Gilead
B. Jerusalem in Judah
C. Bethel in Samaria
D. Tyre and Sidon in Samaria
17. The traditions of Elijah and Elisha give us an example of Prophetism in which century?
17th
A. Century BCE
18th
B. Century BCE
C. 19th Century BCE
8th
D. Century BCE
18. The story of the contest between Elijah and Priests of Baal on Mt. Carmel is recorded in
A. I Kings 17
B. II Kings 18
C. II Kings 17
D. I Kings 18
19. Which one of the following does not describe the clash between Yahwism and Baalism?
A. The Healing of Naaman’s Leprosy
B. Elijah prediction of drought
C. The denunciation of crime against Nabot
D. The contest at Mr. Carmel
20. Elisha’s performance of signs and wonders were meant to demonstrate:
A. Yahweh’s victory over Baal
B. To Ahab that Jezebel will die in a mysterious way
C. Worshipping Baal was a dangerous thing
D. The power of Yahweh and a call to serve Him alone.
21. The Book of Malachi is one of the
A. Pre-Exilic prophetic Books
B. Post-Exilic prophetic Books
8th
C. The Century prophetic Books
9th
D. The Century Prophetic Books
22. Which of the following books are closely linked with the Book of Malachi
A. Zephaniah and Haggai
B. Joel and Amos
C. Haggai and Zechariah
D. Amos and Haggai
23. According to the Book of Malachi, how does God view divorce?
New Testament II – September 2011
A. It is an act which frustrates God’s design
B. It is an act which demonstrate God’s will for humankind
C. It is an act which God loves
D. None of the above
24. In Malachi 1;2-5, God declared: “Is not Esau Jacob’s brother, yet I have loved Jacob but Esau I
have hated. “why did God say that? It is because
A. Edom, which traces its roots to Esau had cursed Israel.
B. Esau refused to recognize Israel as a brother
C. Israel has spoken evil against God
D. Israel has doubted the love of God for them.
25. The Hebrew word for Tithe is
A. Ma’alaki
B. Massa
C. Ma’aser
D. De’kam
SECTION ‘B’
ANSWER ONLY TWO (2) QUESTIONS FROM THIS SECTION (50 MARKS)
1. Briefly discuss the contents of I & II Samuel
2. Write an essay on the conflict between Yahwism and Baalism as it relates to prophetism in Israel
during the days of Elijah and Elisha.
3. Discuss in detail the statement “Israel has disregarded God’s Tithes and Offerings - Malachi 3:7-12.
4. In discussing the date for the Ministry of Malachi, it is argued that he worked after the return of the
Babylonian Exile: Give reasons to either support or refute this claim by Bible scholars.
New Testament II – September 2011
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS’ EXAMINATIONS - NOVEMBER 2009