OLD TESTAMENT STUDIES – PART TWO (2) TIME ALLOWED 2HRS
APRIL 2012
NAME:…………………….………………………...................................INDEX NO.:………..……..…………
DIOCESE:……………………….………………….…CIRCUIT:………………………………….……..…..
INSTRUCTIONS: Answer all Questions from Section “A” and any Two (2) questions from Section “B” .
SECTION A 60 MARKS
1. Which of these Hebrew words is properly rendered as a Seer?
A. Hozeh B. Navi
C. Elohim D. Zehi
2. Which of the following passages demonstrates that a Prophet in the old Testament receives a message
from God and utters the actual words without any modification?
A. Exodus 5:14-16
B. Isaiah 6:1
C. Deuteronomy 18:18
D. Ezekiel 18:2
3. Which of the following Prophetic groups are also called “Congregation” of Prophets
A. Royal Prophets
B. Company of Prophets
C. Cult Prophets
D. Court Prophets
4. One of the roles of the Prophets in Israel was to
A. Preach and Teach during worship
B. Guide the Priest in Israel
New Testament II – September 2011
C. Perform sacrifices on behalf of the people
D. None of the above.
5. During the settlement on the Promised Land the centres of Tyrian Baal and Calf worship were situat-
ed at.
A. Tishbi and Jericho
B. Dan and Tishbi
C. Bethel and Jericho
D. Dan and Bethel
6. In his Prophetic role, Ezekiel builds a city on sand with mud and makes a soldier toy (Ezekiel 4) etc.
This is an example of.
A. The Prophetic admonition
B. The Prophet word
C. Prophecy and Future
D. The Prophetic Symbolism
7. Which of the following is a characteristic of the former Prophets
A. They are mainly Prophets of Old tradition
B. The books are anonymous
C. Moses was the author of these books
D. None of the above
8. All the following are reasons for referring to some books as FORMER PROPHETS with the exception
of one. Which is it?
A. They continue to teach the Deuteronomic Philosophy of history
B. They were the first books written to describe the activities of the early Prophets
C, They were the first books to talk about the future prophet like Ezekiel etc.
D. None of the above.
9. Why are the writings Prophets known as latter Prophets.
A. They were written late in the History of the Israelites
B. Due to their position in the arrangement of the books
C. They are Prophets whose identity are not known
D. All the above
10. Which of these books deal with the conquest and settlement in the Promised land?
A. Joshua B. Samuel C. Kings D. Judges
11. The books of Samuel are divided into five (5) main themes. Which of the following divisions is one of
them?
A. David as King of Judah (2 Sam. 5:24)
B. Saul and David (1 Sam.16:5- 2Sam. 1)
C. Samuel and Saul (1Sam. 9:2- 2 Sam. 2:25)
D. Shiloh and Samuel (1Sam.1-16:7)
New Testament II – September 2011
12. Which of the following demonstrates a Theological test to distinguish between a true and a false
Prophets?
A. The fulfillment of the prophecy
B. The message turning people from evil.
C. The message talking about God‟s judgments
D. The message conforms to Moses‟ teaching.
13. Which of these books cover the period in Israel‟s history between 1220 – 1050 B.C
A. Kings B. Samuel C. Joshua D. Judges
14. In the original Hebrew Canon (The Law, Prophet and the Writings) which book preceded Isaiah?
A. Samuel B. Chronicles C. Kings D. Jeremiah
15. While Elijah prophesied during the reign of Ahab, Elisha Prophesied during the period of
A. Ahab to Jehoahaz B. Ahab to Jeroboam 1 C. Omri to Jehoram D. Jeroboam 1 to Omri
16. The Traditions of Elijah and Elisha give us an example of Prophetism in
7TH 8TH 9TH 10TH
A. Century BCE B. Century BCE C. Century BCE D. Century BCE
17. Which of the following describes the clash between Yahwism and Baalism
A. The healing of Naaman‟s leprosy
B. The killing of Absalom
C. Ahab‟s revolt against Jezebel
D. The denunciation of crime against Nabot.
18. What was main difference between Yehwism and Baalism?
A. While Yahwism relates to animal rearing Baalism relates to crop farming.
B. While Yahwism lays no stress on morality and keeping of commandments Baalism does.
C. While the worship of Yahweh is too restrictive, Baalism is about freedom.
D. While Yahwism has a theological position of Monolatry that of Baalism is Polytheistic.
19. Which of the following is true about Tekoa, Amos‟s hometown?
A. It is a big mountain top town in Judah.
B. It is believed to be the centre of a large sheep-farming district.
C. It is a town where sycamore fig-trees are in abundance.
D. None of the above.
20. During whose reign did Amos prophesy?
A. Jehu B. Jehoram C. Jeroboam11 D. Jehoahaz
21. The book of Amos is one of the……..
A. Post-Exilic Prophetic books
B. 9th century Prophetic books
C. 7th century Prophetic books
D. 8TH century Prophetic books.
22. Which of the following is the most dominant in the message of Amos?
A. The righteousness of God
B. The love of God
New Testament II – September 2011
C. The wickedness of the people of Israel
D. The vindication of Amos as a Prophet of Yahweh.
23. What was the basic structure of the oracle against the Nations in the book of Amos?
A. The opening messenger formula, the punishment and the concluding messenger formula.
B. The offence, the opening messenger formula, the punishment and concluding messenger formula.
C. The opening messenger formula, the offence, the punishment and the concluding messenger for-
mula
D. The punishment, the offence, the opening and then the concluding messenger formular.
24. According to Amos 1:9-10, what was the offence of Phoenicia?
A. They sold Israel into slavery
B. Israel had suffered grievously in the hands of Tyre.
C. They had broken their covenant of brotherhood to Israel
D. They committed serious crimes against Israel.
25. Which of the following towns is the capital of Israel?
A. Jerusalem B. Samaria C. Damascus D. Tekoa
26. Rabbah is the Capital of A. Philistia B. Ammon C. Moab D. Syria
27. One of the offences of Israel and Judah?
A. They had caused many Syrians to die.
B. Their women had become cruel and demanding
C. They gave too much to the poor.
D. None of the above.
28. Which of the following is one of the five visions of doom?
A. Basket of summer fruit B. Boils C. Death of first borns D. Hails
29. All the following are some of the Promises of restoration in the book of Amos except
A. The restoration of the Davidic Dynasty
B. Unity in the Nation
C. Restoration of liberty
D. Restoration of their religion.
30. Which of the following is true about Amos?
A. Begins with message of doom and ends with restoration
B. Grew up in Samaria
C. His father is called Amoz
D. Prophesied when opportunities for international trade had dwindled.
SECTION “B”
ANSWER ONLY TWO (2) QUESTIONS FROM THIS SECTION (40 MARKS)
1. Write an essay “The establishment of the Prophetic institution in Israel”
2. Write brief introduction to the book of Judges and using the prophetic interpretation of the pattern of
history, Give the five stages of the Analysis of the book.
New Testament II – September 2011
3. Discuss the Historical background to, and the Socio Economic situation in Israel during the ministry
of Amos.
4. Amos ends his prophecy on a positive note concerning the future restoration of Israel. Discuss.
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA – LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS EXAMINATIONS – SEPTEMBER 2010