OLD TESTAMENT PART TWO (II) – SEPTEMBER 2014
NAME:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..
DIOCESE:……………………………………………………………………. CIRCUIT:…………………………..……………………………………
INDEX NUMBER:……………………………………………………..…. TIME ALLOWED: 2 HOURS
INSTRUCTIONS: ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS IN SECTION “A” AND TWO (2)
QUESTIONS FROM SECTION „B‟
SECTION „A‟ - 60 MARKS
1. Three (3) Hebrew words are normally used to b. The close and intimate association that ex-
designate a prophet. Which of the following is isted among them
the correct one? c. The cultic nature of Prophecy in those days.
a. Navi, Zehi and Roeh d. None of the above.
b. Hozeh, Roeh and Navi
c. Zehi, Hozeh and Navi 8. The basis on which the principles of ethic and
d. Zehi, Roeh and Hozeh
2. Who is a Prophet according to the Old Testa-
ment?
a. A person who speaks on behalf of a deity
b. A person who is able to predict the future
c. A person who receives a message from
God and utters the same to the people
d. All of the above
3. When did the Prophetic Institution become nec-
essary in the life of the Israelites?
a. During the institution of the monarchy
b. During the return from the Babylonian ex-
ile.
c. During the settlement in Egypt
d. During the settlement in the Promised
land
4. Which of the following passages illustrates that
a prophet receives God‟s word and utters the
same without any modifications?
a. Exodus 7:11 b. Exodus 14: 15-16 c.
Deuteronomy 18:18 d. Isaiah 6:1
5. In the Religion of the Mesopotamian countries
there were:
a. The god, the oracle, the prophet and the
people
b. The god, the oracle and the people
c. The god one intermediary and the people
d. The god and the people only.
6. In Israel „Bands‟ of Prophets were also known
as:
a. Hevel b. Laspoket c. Cultic d. Nebat
7. What was the significance of the phrase “sons of
the prophets during the time of Elijah and Eli-
sha?
a. The true nature of prophetism in those days.
morality were founded in the life of the Israel-
ites was
a. The Ten Commandment
b. The Prophetic institutions.
c. The Law revealed by God at Mt Sinai
d. The Bible
9. During the settlement in the Promised land, The
Tyrian Baal and Calf worship were situated at
a. Bethel and Tishbe b. Dan and Jericho
c. Dan and Bethel d. Bethel and Jeri-
cho
10. Which of the following demonstrates a moral
test to distinguish between a true and false
prophet?
a. The fulfillment or otherwise of the prophecy
b. The message being in line with the teach-
ings of Moses
c. The message talks about God‟s judgement
d. The message should turn people from evil.
11. One of the special responsibilities of the court
prophets was to:
a. Guide the Kings as to the will of God
b. Protect the Kings from their enemies
c. Guide the Kings during wars
d. Sacrifice and give counseling
12. One of the roles that the prophets played in the
life of the Israelites was:
a. Counseling b. Offering sacrifices
c. Preaching during worship
d. None of the above
13. Which of the following Books constitute the
Minor Prophets?
a. Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel
b. Hosea to Malachi
c. Joshua, Judges, Samuel and Kings
d. Samuel, Eli
15 of 101
e. jah and Elisha a. It is one of the pre-exilic prophetic books.
b. It is one of the shortest books that make
14. In which book do we have the story of Elijah up the Minor Prophets.
and Elisha: c. In it we understand better the history of Is-
8th
a. Judges B. Deuteronomy c. Samuel rael in the century B.C.
d. Kings d. In it we understand prophetism in the 9th
century B. C.
15. Why do we refer to Joshua, Judges Samuel and 22. A careful study of the book of Malachi will
Kings as former Prophets? a. Help people to understand the true will of
a. They were the first prophets raised by God Yahweh.
b. They existed before Moses and the others b. Help the individual to know his/her
c. They emphasize Moses‟ prophetic teach- standing before God and his/her com-
ing that obedience to God brings bless- mitment to Gods‟ word.
ings in National life while disobedience c. Help individuals to know who a true proph-
brings disaster. et is.
d. They record the stories of the major proph- d. Help the reader to understand the true mean-
ets ing of a messenger.
16. In the original Hebrew canon which book pre- 23. The name Malachi means?
ceded the book of Isaiah?
a. Jeremiah b. Samuel c. Kings d.
Song of Solomon
17. The second half of the book of Joshua deals
with
a. A time of transition where the only thing
that held the scattered tribe of Israel was
faith in Yahweh
b. How the Promised Land was divided
among the Twelve tribes of Israel.
c. The prophetic interpretation of the pattern of
history ie the cycle of events
d. The History of Isr
e. ael from the end of the period of the Judges.
18. The Prophet Elijah is a native of
a. Tishbe in Gilead b. Bethel in the North
c. Dan in Samaria d. Mount Carmel.
19. What was the significance of Elisha‟s perfor-
mance of signs and wonders in the 9th century
B.C. to
a. Illustrate the variety of Prophetism
b. Demonstrate the power of Baal and its
Prophets.
c. Show that He was the best Prophet
d. Demonstrate the power of Yahweh and a
call to serve Him alone.
20. The Books of Samuel are divided into five (5)
main themes. Which of the following is one of
them?
a. David as King of Judah (2 Samuel 2-4)
b. David as King of all Israel (2 Samuel 8-12)
c. Samuel and Saul (1 Samuel 5:2-15:35)
d. Saul and David (1 Samuel 16:5-2 Samuel
12).
21. Which of the following is true about the book of
Malachi?
a. A Prophet b. My Messenger c The
Lord‟s Servant d. A King
24. Which of the following is true about the person-
al history of Malachi?
a. Only His parents were recorded in the book.
b. His hometown is recorded as Tekoa.
c. There is nothing about His personal His-
tory in the book.
d. It is only in the books of Ezra and Nehemi-
ah that His personal history is recoded.
25. When did Malachi prophesy?
a. During the return of Nehemiah probably
a few years after 433 B.C.
b. During the building of the Temple (520-
516B.C)
c. During the reign of King Hezekiah
d. None of the above.
26. How many years elapsed after Malachi‟s proph-
ecy before the appearance of John the Baptist?
a. 800 b. 600 c. 400 d. 200 years.
27. Which of the following books are closely linked
with the book of Malachi?
a. Amos and Haggai
b. Zephaniah and Haggai
c. Joel and Amos
d. Zechariah And Haggai
28. The theme of the book of Malachi is
a. God‟s rebuke of Israel‟s outrageous sins.
b. Preparing the way for the Messiah
c. Defiling the law forbidding mixed marriag-
es.
d. Tithe and Offerings.
16 of 101
29. Which one of the following is a charge against a. Elijah did not die hence He is identified
the priest? with Jesus Christ.
a. Breaking of God‟s law on marriage. b. The coming of Elijah was fulfilled by John
b. Refusal to pay tithes and offerings. the Baptist.
c. Showing of contempt for God‟s name c. Elijah will someday come personally and
d. Calling of evil „good‟. Minister again.
d. That one will come in the spirit and power
30. Which of the following is not one of the views of Elijah but not Elijah personally.
concerning the identification of Elijah in Mala-
chi 4:5-6
SECTION „B‟
ANSWER ONLY TWO (2) QUESTIONS FROM THIS SECTION (40 MARKS).
1. Write an essay to show that in Israel there were both True and False prophets. How can one discern
between true and false prophet using the Old Testament Tests?
2. Write a brief Introduction to the book of Judges and using the prophetic interpretation of the pattern of
history, give the five (5) Stages of the Analysis of the Book.
3. Using Malachi 3:7-12 as the basis, write an essay on “Tithes and Offering”.
4. Discuss in detail the statement “Israel has discredited God‟s service (Malachi 3:13-4:3).
l
THE METHODIST CHURCH GHANA
LAY MINISTRIES DIVISION
CONNEXIONAL LOCAL PREACHERS’ EXAMINATION