OLD TESTAMENT STUDIES – PART TWO
TIME: TWO HOURS
NAME: ……………………………………………………………………………………….……………………
DIOCESE: …………………………………… CIRCUIT: ……………………….. INDEX NO..……………..
INSTURCTIONS: Attempt all Questions in Section A and any Two (2) from section B.
SECTION A. ATTEMPT ALL QUESTIONS
1. Which of the following three (3) Hebrew words are normally used to designate the
Prophets:
A. Rō’eh, Nãvi, Zêhi
B. Hōzeh, Zêhi, Nãvi
C. Hōzêh, Rō’eh, Nãvi
D. Zêhi, Rō’eh, Hōzêh
2. Which of these two (2) Hebrew words in their proper rendering refer to insight ?
A Rō’eh and Hōzêh
B. Rō’eh and Nãvi
C. Nãvi and Hōzêh
D. Nãvi and Zêhi
3. In the Old Testament rendering, who is a prophet?
A. A person who is able to predict the future or a fortune teller.
B. A person who receives a message from God and utters the same to the people.
C. A person who speaks on behalf of a deity.
D. All of the above.
4. When did the prophetic institution become necessary in the life of the people of
Israel?
A. During the return from the Babylonian exile.
B. During the settlement in the Promised Land.
C. After the institution of the monarchy.
D. None of the above.
5. Why was the law, which laid the broad basis on which the life of the people of God
Was built and guided seemed to be inadequate to necessitate the formation of the
Prophetic Institution.
A. The Law did not speak in detail on every possible situation that would arise in the life of the peo-
ple of Israel.
B. There were many inherent weaknesses in the Law itself.
C. The people of Israel did not accept certain specific revelation of God.
D. None of the above.
6. Which of the following statements is true in the life of the Prophets.
A. Just as the prophets represented the people before God, so the priests represented God to the
people.
B. Just as the prophets represented the people before God the prophets represented the people
before God.
C. Just as the priests represented the people before God, so the prophets represented God to the
people.
New Testament II – September 2011
D. Just as the priests represented the people before God, so the prophets represented the people
before God.
7. Who is believed to be the founder of the Bands of Prophets who were raised to encourage and uplift the
spiritual welfare of the People of Israel.
A. Samuel
B. Elijah
C. Elisha
D. Eli
8. What was the significant difference between the religion of ancient Greece and that of the ancient Israel?
A. Whereas in ancient Greece there was only one intermediary between God and the people, Israel had
God, the oracle, the Prophet and the people.
B. In Greece there was the god, the oracle and the people, while Israel had God, the Oracle, the
Prophets and the people.
C. In Israel there was God, the Oracle and the people while in Greece there was god, the oracle, the
prophets and the people.
D. In Israel there was God, the prophets and the people while in Greece there was god, the oracle,
the prophets and the people.
9. According to the testimony of the Bible the Prophetic Institution of Israel was set up by
A. God Himself
B Moses
C. Samuel
D. Isaiah
10. Broadly speaking the Old Testament Prophecy falls into how many main forms:
A. Two
B. Three
C. Four
D. Five
11. The company of Prophets in Israel were also known as;-
A. Royal Prophets
B. Congregation of Prophets
C. Cults Prophets
D. Shalom Prophets
12. One of the Special responsibilities of the Court Prophets was to;-
A. Lead the Kings during wars
B. Protect the Kings from their enemies
C. Guide the Kings as to the will of God
D. None of the above
13. All the following are some of the roles that the prophets played in the life of Israel except.
A. Interceding on behalf of the people
B. Preaching and teaching during worship.
C. Giving of Oracle which was generally consultative
D. Offering sacrifices on behalf of the people.
14. Which of the following explains the Theological test that one could use to discern between true and false
prophets.
A. The fulfillment of the prophecy
B. The message turning people from evil
C. The message talking about the judgment
D. The message being in line with the teaching of Moses.
New Testament II – September 2011
15. Which of the following books constitute the Former Prophet?
A. Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel.
B. Joshua, Judges, Samuel and Kings.
C. Samuel, Elijah and Elisha.
D. Hosea to Malachi.
16. Which of the following covers the period of the Former Prophets?
A. The period of the Babylonian exile
B. The Exodus from Egypt till the death of Moses
C. Entrance into the Promised Land until the destruction of the theocracy under Nebuchadnezzar
D. None of the above
17. In which books do we have the story of Elijah and Elisha
A. Samuel
B. Kings
C. Deuteronomy
D. Judges.
18. In which of the following books is the story of Achan recorded.
A. Deuteronomy
B. Numbers
C. Joshua
D. Judges
19. The Traditions of Elijah and Elisha are basically concerned with the issues of
A. Yahwism and Ballism
B. Kings of Israel and their Unfaithfulness
C. False and True prophets
D. Monolatry and Henotheism
20. All the following are some of the problems that the Israelites faced when they entered the Promised Land
except.
A. Challenges of the worship of Baal and the worship of God of Israel.
B. Adoption of their Agricultural practices and fertility cult.
C. Ballism as an attractive religion from the sensory point of view.
D. None of the above.
21. Which of the following names means “burden bearer”.
A. Amoz
B. Amos
C. Mesha
D. Tekoa
22. The father of the Prophet Isaiah is
A. Amos
B. Jehoash
C. Amoz
D. Jeroboam II
23. In the Book of Amos, what was the offence of Syria.
A. They had often harassed Israel especially under Ben Hadad and King Hazael.
B. They had broken the covenant brotherhood to Israel.
C. They had committed serious crimes against Israel including opening the womb of pregnant Israelite
women with swords.
D They had desecrated the tombs of the Kings of Edom with no respect for the dead.
New Testament II – September 2011
24. What Punishment did Amos pronounce upon Judah for their offence according to
Amos 2:4&5.
A. They would be defeated in war and its palaces burned
B. Their cities would be destroyed and the inhabitants enslaved.
C. God would send fire upon it and burn its fortresses.
D. God would cause may to die and others carried back to Kir.
25. In Amos 5:4-15 God extended a final invitation to Israel. What does this demonstrate about God’s nature.
A. His patience, mercy and love
B. He is a consuming fire
C. His power to restore Israel to her former glory
D. He is omniscient God.
SECTION B ANSWER ANY TWO (2) QUESTION FROM THIS SECTION
1. Israel’s true religion had always been plagued by imitators and false prophets alongside the faithful and true
prophets. Discuss this statement and show, in the light of the Old Testament, the three tests by which one
could discern between “True and False Prophets.”
2. Discuss the major religious problem that Israel faced i.e. the conflict between Yahwism and Baalism, etc.
during the settlement in the land of Canaan.
3. Write an essay on the Historical and Religious background to the ministry of the Prophet Amos. To what
extent is this true of the present day Church in Ghana.
4. Amos ends his prophecy on a positive note concerning the future restoration of Israel. Mention the five (5)
specific areas of restoration and discuss any three (3) of them.
GOOD LUCK